it's pretty off-grid tarmac ran out
about an hour ago
mud and wheelchairs do not go well
together how the hell is this gonna work
i might just have to grab you and throw
you on there i'm neil strawson a
researcher on animal impossible
the wildlife and adventure series
produced by bbc studios natural history
unit
and a full-time wheelchair user
i'll be taking on a series of fast
turnaround shoots in remote and
difficult locations
how's that easy
[Music]
okay what does a researcher on a show
like this do anyway
so the role of a researcher is kind of
to find stories make contacts
um setting up shoots and then handling
logistics when you're on location and
assisting the crew
it can be a physically demanding one for
anyone especially if you're having to
carry a lot of kit
or like fetch props during the filming
you can be running back and forth all
day
the desk space stuff i've got covered
but away from the office i do have extra
needs
just two things really the right kit and
an extra pair of hands
like a runner who can help me get around
and lend a hand with the physical stuff
how does the production afford these
extra costs
working with a researcher in a
wheelchair doesn't actually cost the
production any more money
thanks to access to work which is a
government
scheme which provides funding to enable
disabled people to carry out their work
and this can be in the form of a support
worker or extra equipment
okay the costs of kit and an extra team
member are covered
see you later later but what about
actually getting around
i just want to get out and see and do
things it's going to be super fun
as if this couldn't get any better i've
literally not even
out of the vehicle and i've been given a
kitten i mean look at this thing
it's actually pretty straightforward but
you do have to think ahead
if i take my cushion apart
this bit here is like super squishy and
so
i'll sit on that means i don't get sword
we'll be doing planes buses
four-wheel drives
and when the road runs out we'll
improvise
we're gonna get all right
i wanted to go on horseback
so when people say it's gonna be a bit
difficult or it can't be done
one of the toughest trips for all of us
was a day-long tractor transfer
into the middle of the costa rican
rainforest
it was tough but i was able to get in
there and do my job
i found one yes you did nice work
as a researcher i need to be around the
camera as much as possible
so i can respond to what's needed
[Music]
the horses are about to charge behind
the guys so now i'm sat
on the corner of pick up
i can get to places that you might not
think i would be able to get to like
look hands-free not falling over so yeah
that's kind of cool right
the one thing my normal wheels really
struggle with
is thick mud so we picked up an extra
piece of kit
so that's the research station where
we're staying and it took us about
five ten minutes to get down here it
would have been possible but a lot
harder
in my standard off-road kit so this
wheelchair actually makes it way
easier and it will get me to places that
i can't get to otherwise
[Music]
animal impossible moves fast we need to
get a lot done
in a lot of locations so am i slowing
the team down
i just thought oh it's really run and
gone and how's it all going to work
and then after the first 10 minutes i
felt really stupid in myself
because of how absolutely normal
it is if i was totally honest i thought
it might slow us down a bit and it just
wasn't
really like that it didn't seem like
that at all it's been no different to
any of the other productions
and there may be some surprising
benefits of having a wheelchair user on
board
so having a wheelchair user on the team
does something really interesting to
teamwork within that team because even
the simple things like getting to
location
are slightly more complicated so the
team have to work together a little bit
more so their teamwork is dialed
right up before they've even got the
cameras out so that unit is functioning
much more effectively
there were inevitably moments when
access issues just
didn't work out there's been a lot of
action down there
and we given like the timings everything
i've had to be
up here this did on occasion leave me
feeling isolated from the crew
but maybe this is just the reality of
being a researcher
so quite a lot this year i was on shoots
where we had lots of things going on at
once
you can find you're not with the crew at
all cause you're having to run around
and do other things while they're
filming
on the other shoots before this a lot of
the researchers have missed the action
or the moment or the
all the fun bits because they're doing
all the stuff and that's kind of that's
the job i guess isn't it
this is where someone like me who always
dreamt of being in these places before i
was in a wheelchair
to now be here doing it feels like
a massive achievement what this year on
animal impossible has taught me
and the rest of my team is this they've
come here
there may be reasons why having a
wheelchair user on location doesn't work
but logistics speed of working or costs
those aren't three of them
[Music]
if you say it's not going to work then
it won't but if you actually want it to
happen
as a wheelchair user and as a production
than it can